# Gather your ingredients.[3] [4] This batter is gets its airiness primarily from natural fermentation. The traditional leavening agent is plain yogurt, called "dahi" or "curd" in Indian recipes. You may substitute plain Greek yogurt or buttermilk for this ingredient, as long as it has live active cultures.
# Mix up the batter. Whisk together the dry ingredients in a medium, non-reactive (preferably glass or ceramic) bowl. Then add the yogurt or buttermilk and melted ghee, and stir well to form a thick batter. Finally, add the saffron or food coloring to achieve a golden yellow color.
# Adjust the thickness of the batter. Your batter should resemble a thick pancake batter. Depending on the humidity and the moisture content of the yogurt or buttermilk you are using, you may need to add water to obtain this consistency. If the batter is too thick, add water a bit at a time and stir well between additions. If the batter is too thin, stir in additional flour one tablespoon at a time
# Leave the batter to ferment. Cover the bowl and leave the batter to ferment in a warm place for 12 hours or overnight. (In warm climates, just a few hours will suffice). The batter will rise and become noticeably fluffier than it was the night before. It is now ready to use.
# Assemble your ingredients. This recipe is for a saffron simple syrup. If you do not have saffron available, use a few drops of yellow food coloring to achieve the proper color. It is also common to add other flavorings to this syrup, including lemon, lime, cardamom, and rose water. Try the basic version first, and then experiment with your own additions.
# Boil the syrup. Add sugar and water to a pan and bring to a boil. Turn the heat down until it is just barely bubbling. Cook the syrup until it reaches the single thread stage, or approximately 220°-222°F (104°-105°C). Watch the syrup carefully to make sure it doesn't burn. This should take around 10-15 minutes on medium-low heat.
# Heat the oil. Fill a heavy-bottomed pot, such as a dutch oven, kadhai, or wok, with enough ghee or oil for deep-frying, between one and two inches. Heat the oil to between 360°-375° F (182°-190°C).[9] To test the oil temperature without a thermometer, place the end of a wooden spoon into the oil. If bubbles start to form around the spoon and float to the top, your oil is ready to go.
# Load the batter into a dispenser while the oil is heating. Give the batter a quick stir with a spatula, but do not over-mix.[11] Then pour the batter into a clean squeeze bottle or condiment dispenser. Plastic squeeze bottles can be purchased at many grocery stores, as can specialized batter dispensers. You can also recycle an empty ketchup bottle, just be sure to wash it thoroughly before use. If you do not have a squeeze bottle available, you can pour the batter into a food-grade plastic bag, and cut a small hole in one corner of it when you are ready to dispense the batter.
# Fry the jalebi until they are crisp and golden brown. The batter will first sink to the bottom, but will quickly pop back up and float to the top. After a minute or two, flip the jalebi over so they cook on both sides. Then remove them from the oil and drain for a moment on paper towels.
# Soak the jalebi in the syrup. Place the jalebi into the syrup while they are still hot, and let them soak for at least a minute, some people prefer up to 4-5 minutes. Turn the jalebi over once so both sides have a chance to soak. The jalebi should become thoroughly saturated with sugar syrup. Start your next batch of jalebi cooking while the first is soaking the syrup.
# Remove the jalebi from the syrup and serve. If you wish to serve the jalebi warm, place the jalebi on a platter, or in bowls with a bit of syrup. Otherwise, remove them from the syrup and let then dry on a rack for several hours until the syrup forms a crust.